## Profressional Self Assessment

Throughout my time at Southern New Hampshire University pursuing my degree in computer science with a concentration in software engineering, I was able to gain knowledge of a wide number of skills, which include different programming languages, different aspects of computer hardware and software, and the different stages of the software development life cycle. Throughout this program I was able to showcase my knowledge of the different programming languages, such as C++, Python, and Java, as well as my skills in database management using SQL and MongoDB. Using all the skills I received from this program has prepared me for my future career in software engineering.

When it comes to working in a team environment and collaborating of projects, CS310 offer an introduction to working in a team environment and taught me skills on how to proficiently work on a project as a team. Communicating with stakeholders was present in almost every final project in a computer science course, but it was really broken down in CS250, which was software development life cycle. This course taught me the skills I need to communicate with the stakeholders and fulfill the needs they required. I learned the process on developing a program and the different steps, which are key to efficiently and properly develop this program.
This program has gone hand and hand with my current career as an applications analyst. I have used the skills that I learned at Southern New Hampshire University and used them in a real-world environment. I have worked in a team environment and communicated directly with stakeholders on multiple projects. One thing I have learned is a project is never really finished, there is always something that needs to be added or fixed. My experience working with real customers is having an actual deadline and budget to deal with, which you do not really experience in the school environment. This has taught me to manage my time more efficiently to complete the project with the stakeholder in mind.

Coming out of school and going into the real-world environment was an eye opener. Using the what I learned about data structures and algorithms, I was able to succeed in my early-on projects in my career. After school it is up to you to retain that knowledge and learn more about data structures and algorithms. My current job is to handle developing new application and to be the DBA for our databases. I am using all the skills I learned about software engineering and design for the application development and using what I learned about databases for the database management. 

The three artifacts that are included for this portfolio, were all pieces that showcased my skills in software design and engineering, algorithms and data structures, and databases. My first artifact showcased my enjoyment of programming with the Raspberry Pi. The second artifact showcases my skill in C++ and data structure and algorithms and making sure my code is secure. The third artifact showcased my skills with databases as well as creating APIs. 

## Code Review
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/lzdZD19YHmE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Enhancement One: Software Design and Engineering

<a href="http://github.com/Nick2159x/CS499/tree/Master/Enhancement%20One" title=" Click for Enhancement One">Click for Enhancement One</a>

#### Artifact One Narrative
   
   The artifact that I choose to enhance is called weather_station.py. This programs’ objective is to record the temperature and humidity of the environment then store that information in a JSON file. This file was created as the final project of CS-350 class. I selected this artifact because I really enjoyed CS350 and I felt like this project was really fun to work on. The components that showcase my skills are programming the sensors to take a reading only when it is light outside and then storing it in a JSON file. This program has multiple if statements and loops. The improvements I included in this artifact was adding a feature that converts the JSON file into a csv format and then emails that file to a specific person. I think I met the course objectives that I planned for in this enhancement. I was able to send an email through the raspberry pi and have it as a CSV file. When enhancing this artifact, I learned some important ways to convert JSON files. I learned how to implement an emailing system in my raspberry pi and how to utilize it with a button click. The biggest challenge I had was getting the file to convert and be attached to the email. This was hard to figure out and also getting the update csv file with new information. Overall, I learned how to implement these new systems to enhance my artifact. 


## Enhancement Two: Algorithms and Data Structures

<a href="http://github.com/Nick2159x/CS499/tree/Master/Enhancement%20Two" title=" Click for Enhancement Two">Click for Enhancement Two</a>

#### Artifact Two Narrative

   The artifact is call operand.cpp and it was first created in the CS405 secure coding class. This was created to show the vulnerability of not having ID numbers printed the same time every time and we changed it to randomize the output of ID numbers. I feel like this artifact is great in my portfolio because it demonstrates my ability to have different algorithms and data structures, while also focusing on the secure coding aspect of it. The array that stores the user data is the more efficient data structure compared to a vector, which shows my ability of making decisions for efficiency on memory. I chose a switch statement instead of an if-else statement because it is faster and if I were to create a large amount of case statements it would handle it better. The choices I made have created this program to be the most efficient in terms of data structures and algorithms. I think I have met the course objectives when I chose my enhancement for this artifact. Looking back on how I came up with enhancing this artifact, I really learned how to take a step back and try to pick and choose my data structures and algorithms that would be the best fit and the most efficient. I learned to look and think on how my code would affect memory and the overall speed of the program. I also learned how to create secure code. The hardest challenges that I had were figuring out the best data structures and algorithms to include in my enhancement.

## Enhancement Three: Databases

<a href="http://github.com/Nick2159x/CS499/tree/Master/Enhancement%20Three" title=" Click for Enhancement Three">Click for Enhancement Three</a>

#### Artifact Three Narrative

   The artifact I chose to enhance was Milestone2 from CS340 and it was the introduction to a Restful API and Bottle framework. I included this artifact in my ePortfolio because it showcased my knowledge in databases, APIs, and Python programming language. I thought this artifact would be interesting to make it in my own way. That is where the enhancement comes in. For my enhancement I choose to create a brand-new database called “NicksZoo” and have a collection named “Animals”. I stored a bunch of zoo animals in it with their names and type of animal they are. Then I utilized the restful API to allow for users on the client side to create new animals, read all the animals, update animals, and delete animals, by using specific URL routes. Looking back at this program, I can say that I did meet the course objectives that I planned to meet and that my outcome for having a fully functional restful API is complete. When creating this program, I learned a great deal about MongoDB and how to create local instance of the database server on your computer and how to connect to it. I learned how to problem solve and find the best routes and functions to achieve my goal of creating a Restful API with CRUD functionality. I improved my Python skills even further than before I started this program. I really had a hard time with setting up the MongoDB. I had to figure out the right configurations for security so my computer could start it. I also had a hard time writing the correct routes and functions to perform the queries on the MongoDB.

